contents/guides/koding-overview/index.md, before:

---
title: Koding Overview
author: leeolayvar
template: guide.jade
sidebar: {
  'Koding in 2 Minutes Video': '#koding-in-2-minutes-video',
  'What is Koding?': '#what-is-koding?',
  'Is Koding a Production Host?': '#is-koding-a-production-host?',
}
---



Koding offers nearly unlimited possibilities; so many in fact, that people
often misunderstand what Koding is being designed for. Knowing the goals
of the platform will help you make the most of it and not feel misled when
something isn't as expected.

This guide will briefly go over what Koding is, identify some
misconceptions people may have, and why certain restrictions and choices
were made.



## Koding in 2 Minutes Video

<iframe width="680" height="450" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/zCHKLvpIXUA" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>



## What Is Koding?

Koding is an online development environment with the goal of simplifying
worldwide development and providing free computation and development to
everyone.

It does this by offering Free VMs for development to anyone.
The Koding VMs provide you with a *real* Ubuntu OS, with a *real* Terminal,
and allow you to work on *real* code. Python, PHP, C++, C, it doesn't matter.
Even better, they are online. Accessible from anywhere in the world. Even
sharable with teams.



## Is Koding a Production Host?

Koding is first and foremost a Development Environment. All features have been
tailored with this in mind and evidence of this is reflected in all of the
features you see implemented. Lets highlight some of these items.

### VMs Shutdown After Logout

Approximately 20 minutes after you log out, your Free VMs will shut down. Why?
Koding's development focus is not centered around hosting your blog/site.
Koding is here to enable you and to help you make great things. Attempting
to be yet another host in a sea of perfectly capable production hosts
won't help achieve that goal.

Another benefit of this system, is that it helps avoid security concerns that
collectively harm us all. There are plenty of users out there who have used
Koding to host dangerous applications. Phishing, scamming, spamming, all
of it. This directly harms all of us, by giving Koding a bad name,
wasting resources, and hindering a service that we are trying to be productive
with. It's no surprise that restrictions need to be put in place to inhibit
this behavior, for the benefit of everyone.

**Note:** In the future Paid Always-On VMs will be an option. This is
currently not available though.

### CPU Bursts vs Sustained

Koding wants to help you get work done, and get work done fast. Things like
compilers have a lot to compute, but in short sporadic bursts. Koding's CPU
allocation has been tailored with this in mind. It wants you to compute what
you need, as soon as possible. It is not tailored for a long running
process that expect heavy and consistent usage, such as a Minecraft server.

### Raw Ubuntu OS

These days a lot of hosting platforms are heavily optimized for
their specific niche(s). They streamline the process of hosting your
language or application style of choice, which gives you added
stability and performance gains. Examples of this are the plethora
of Apache-PHP hosts, Nodejitsu, Google App Engine, Heroku, AppFog,
and a nearly limitless amount of others.

Why is this? Well, production hosting is hard, and there are obvious
benefits to letting someone else do it. The idea of uploading your
php site to a standard php host is easy. The idea of buying a
dedicated server, setting up Apache, firewalls, updates, etc, just
seems a bit crazy in comparison. On top of that, what about
load balancing and CDNs? Doing it all yourself can be hard.

Well, Koding gives you that raw machine. It's not trying to make
production hosting for you, but rather it's giving you a completely
open and powerful environment to *make stuff*! So by all means
*make* your Wordpress blog on Koding, and if you really want
to host it on Koding wait a while and buy an Always-On VM. Just
be aware of the design goals.

Commit message:

Added a "Quick Patch" for some overzealous wording
I apparently described Koding a bit poorly, so this is a quick
patch for all the exposure this specific doc is getting.

More work is needed.

Related #71

contents/guides/koding-overview/index.md, after:

---
title: Koding Overview
author: leeolayvar
template: guide.jade
sidebar: {
  'Koding in 2 Minutes Video': '#koding-in-2-minutes-video',
  'Is Koding a Production Host?': '#is-koding-a-production-host?',
}
---



Koding is an online development environment with the goal of simplifying
worldwide development and providing free computation and development to
everyone.

It does this by offering Free VMs for development to anyone.
The Koding VMs provide you with a *real* Ubuntu OS, with a *real* Terminal,
and allow you to work on *real* code. Python, PHP, C++, C, it doesn't matter.
Even better, they are online. Accessible from anywhere in the world. Even
sharable with teams.

If you haven't heard of Koding, [click here][0] and go check it out!



## Koding in 2 Minutes Video

<iframe width="680" height="450" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/zCHKLvpIXUA" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>



## Is Koding a Production Host?

Koding is first and foremost a Development Environment. All features have been
tailored with this in mind and evidence of this is reflected in all of the
features you see implemented. Lets highlight some of these items.

### VMs Shutdown After Logout

Approximately 20 minutes after you log out, your Free VMs will shut down. Why?
Koding's development focus is not centered around hosting your blog/site.
Koding is here to enable you and to help you make great things. Attempting
to be yet another host in a sea of perfectly capable production hosts
won't help achieve that goal.

Another benefit of this system, is that it helps avoid security concerns that
collectively harm us all. There are plenty of users out there who have used
Koding to host dangerous applications. Phishing, scamming, spamming, all
of it. This directly harms all of us, by giving Koding a bad name,
wasting resources, and hindering a service that we are trying to be productive
with. It's no surprise that restrictions need to be put in place to inhibit
this behavior, for the benefit of everyone.

**Note:** In the future Paid Always-On VMs will be an option. This is
currently not available though.

### CPU Bursts vs Sustained

Koding wants to help you get work done, and get work done fast. Things like
compilers have a lot to compute, but in short sporadic bursts. Koding's CPU
allocation has been tailored with this in mind. It wants you to compute what
you need, as soon as possible. It is not tailored for a long running
process that expect heavy and consistent usage, such as a Minecraft server.

### Raw Ubuntu OS

These days a lot of hosting platforms are heavily optimized for
their specific niche(s). They streamline the process of hosting your
language or application style of choice, which gives you added
stability and performance gains. Examples of this are the plethora
of Apache-PHP hosts, Nodejitsu, Google App Engine, Heroku, AppFog,
and a nearly limitless amount of others.

Why is this? Well, production hosting is hard, and there are obvious
benefits to letting someone else do it. The idea of uploading your
php site to a standard php host is easy. The idea of buying a
dedicated server, setting up Apache, firewalls, updates, etc, just
seems a bit crazy in comparison. On top of that, what about
load balancing and CDNs? Doing it all yourself can be hard.

Well, Koding gives you that raw machine. It's not trying to make
production hosting for you, but rather it's giving you a completely
open and powerful environment to *make stuff*! So by all means
*make* your Wordpress blog on Koding, and if you really want
to host it on Koding wait a while and buy an Always-On VM. Just
be aware of the design goals.




[0]: https://koding.com
