README.md, before:



# Koding Docs: Community Guides & Wiki

- [Guides](http://koding.github.io/docs):
  Guide & Video paired Koding documentation
- [Wiki](https://github.com/koding/docs/wiki):
  General Community Wiki



## Description

The Koding Community Docs are a community grown documentation project centered
around [Koding](https://koding.com), an Online Development Environment that
aims to bring free development and computing to all.

This documentation effort is in two parts.
[Guides](http://koding.github.io/docs) and
[Wiki](https://github.com/koding/docs/wiki). The goal of
the Guides is to have a large series of tutorial & video pairs which go over
complete instructions on overcoming a common problem, common
confusion, or just general information in Koding. The Wikis on the otherhand
do what Wikis do best, community driven information. A little less organized
sometimes, but nevertheless still quite needed.

With the two, we hope to have one of the most supportive and informative
communities available to all, over at [Koding](https://koding.com). :)

Commit message:

This is a Docs repo, not Koding Support
Made a Readme change to point out that this is a repo and issue tracker
for documentation, not Koding Support/etc.

closes #123

README.md, after:



# Koding Docs: Community Guides & Wiki

- [Guides](http://koding.github.io/docs):
  Guide & Video paired Koding documentation
- [Wiki](https://github.com/koding/docs/wiki):
  General Community Wiki

## This is Not Koding Support

This repository and issue tracker are for *documentation*. If you are having
an issue with Koding and need to report a bug, please submit a post to the
Koding Activity Feed with the tag the post with `Koding Bugs`.

Thanks!

## Description

The Koding Community Docs are a community grown documentation project centered
around [Koding](https://koding.com), an Online Development Environment that
aims to bring free development and computing to all.

This documentation effort is in two parts.
[Guides](http://koding.github.io/docs) and
[Wiki](https://github.com/koding/docs/wiki). The goal of
the Guides is to have a large series of tutorial & video pairs which go over
complete instructions on overcoming a common problem, common
confusion, or just general information in Koding. The Wikis on the otherhand
do what Wikis do best, community driven information. A little less organized
sometimes, but nevertheless still quite needed.

With the two, we hope to have one of the most supportive and informative
communities available to all, over at [Koding](https://koding.com). :)
