contents/guides/domain-management/index.md, before:

---
title: Domain Management
author: leeolayvar
template: guide.jade
sidebar: {
  'Video': '#video',
  'Changing username.kd.io': '#changing-the-username.kd.io-vm',
  'Creating additional domains': '#creating-additional-domains',
  'Additional resources': '#additional-resources'
}
---

In this guide we will cover how to manage your Koding subdomains.

This will cover how to change which VM is shown when you connect to
your http://username.kd.io domain, as well as how to create additional
subdomains.


## Video

The following video link is a quick explanation of Domain Management.

<iframe width="680" height="450" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/31YloYb5kco" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>



## Changing the username.kd.io VM

Here we will cover how to change the VM that you see when you connect
to `http://username.kd.io`.

1. First, go to **Your Environments**, which can be found in the lower right
  of your [Develop](http://koding.com/Develop) area, and click the Gear
  at the bottom. An image is below, the gear is in the lower right of the
  image.
  
  ![Environment Settings](environmentsettings.png)
  
2. Next, select your Username Domain *(username.kd.io)* and you will notice
  two large gray boxes. The gray boxes are populated with Yellow VMs, and
  a single Green VM. If you don't see a Green VM, it is because no VM is
  assigned to that domain. Below is an image of some example VMs..
  
  ![Empty Domain](emptydomain.png)
  
3. To activate a VM, simply click on a Yellow VM. It will move from the
  light gray **Your VMs** box, and into the dark gray box becoming Green.
  
  The Green VM signifies it is enabled for that domain. Likewise, if
  you click on a Green VM, it removes that VM from that domain and it becomes
  yellow. Below is a picture of a Green VM.
  
  ![Populated Domain](populateddomain.png)
  
  If, when you clicked on a Yellow VM, you received a popup notifying you
  that *"A domain name can only be bound to one VM."* it is because, as
  it says, a single domain can only point to a single VM at a time. Click on
  the Green VM, and then your desired Yellow VM, to swap the two.



## Creating Additional Domains

Creating domains is even simpler. Click on the **Add New Domain** button,
enter your new subdomain name, and click the green **Add Domain** button
on the bottom. Simple as that!

![Add Domain](adddomain.png)



## Additional Resources

- [Domain Management](http://koding.com/Environments)

Commit message:

Added Domain Management Warning
To warn about the outdated information.

related #148

contents/guides/domain-management/index.md, after:

---
title: Domain Management
author: leeolayvar
template: guide.jade
sidebar: {
  'Video': '#video',
  'Changing username.kd.io': '#changing-the-username.kd.io-vm',
  'Creating additional domains': '#creating-additional-domains',
  'Additional resources': '#additional-resources'
}
---

In this guide we will cover how to manage your Koding subdomains.

This will cover how to change which VM is shown when you connect to
your http://username.kd.io domain, as well as how to create additional
subdomains.


**NOTICE**: This guide is out dated due to the recent overhaul to
Environment Management, and i'll be updating this guide soon :) -- lee


## Video

The following video link is a quick explanation of Domain Management.

<iframe width="680" height="450" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/31YloYb5kco" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>



## Changing the username.kd.io VM

Here we will cover how to change the VM that you see when you connect
to `http://username.kd.io`.

1. First, go to **Your Environments**, which can be found in the lower right
  of your [Develop](http://koding.com/Develop) area, and click the Gear
  at the bottom. An image is below, the gear is in the lower right of the
  image.
  
  ![Environment Settings](environmentsettings.png)
  
2. Next, select your Username Domain *(username.kd.io)* and you will notice
  two large gray boxes. The gray boxes are populated with Yellow VMs, and
  a single Green VM. If you don't see a Green VM, it is because no VM is
  assigned to that domain. Below is an image of some example VMs..
  
  ![Empty Domain](emptydomain.png)
  
3. To activate a VM, simply click on a Yellow VM. It will move from the
  light gray **Your VMs** box, and into the dark gray box becoming Green.
  
  The Green VM signifies it is enabled for that domain. Likewise, if
  you click on a Green VM, it removes that VM from that domain and it becomes
  yellow. Below is a picture of a Green VM.
  
  ![Populated Domain](populateddomain.png)
  
  If, when you clicked on a Yellow VM, you received a popup notifying you
  that *"A domain name can only be bound to one VM."* it is because, as
  it says, a single domain can only point to a single VM at a time. Click on
  the Green VM, and then your desired Yellow VM, to swap the two.



## Creating Additional Domains

Creating domains is even simpler. Click on the **Add New Domain** button,
enter your new subdomain name, and click the green **Add Domain** button
on the bottom. Simple as that!

![Add Domain](adddomain.png)



## Additional Resources

- [Domain Management](http://koding.com/Environments)
