contents/index.md, before:

---
title: Koding Community Docs
contributors: [andygold, leeolayvar, danielway]
template: index.jade
---


The Koding Community Documentation is an ongoing effort to create a series
of guides that, when combined with the
[Koding Community Wiki](https://github.com/koding/docs/wiki),
provide a well rounded guide to making the best use of
[Koding](https://koding.com) as possible.
If you have any requests, issues, or something doesn’t quite make sense
then please
[submit an issue](https://github.com/koding/docs/issues/new)
and we can help the Koding community grow, *together*. :)


**Disclaimer**: We are Koding users like any other, so there are no claims to
know any fancy tricks or in depth Linux solutions for your life. We are
simply trying to help in a place we think we can.




## Frequently Asked Questions

- [What is Koding?](guides/koding-overview/)
- [How do I setup FTP?](guides/setting-up-ftp/)
- [How do I install MySQL and phpMyAdmin?](guides/installing-mysql-phpmyadmin/)
- [How do I SSH into my VM?](guides/ssh-into-your-vm/)
- [How do I install Wordpress?](guides/installing-wordpress/)
- [General .htaccess Issues](guides/general-htaccess/)
- [How do I find my VM Number?](guides/find-your-vm-number/)



## Feature Exploration

- [Domain Management](guides/domain-management/): Managing which domain points to which VM.
- [Reinitializing your VM](guides/reinitializing-your-vm/): The magic reset everything button!

Commit message:

Added Koding Apps Guide
Basic Koding Apps overview.

Closes #19

contents/index.md, after:

---
title: Koding Community Docs
contributors: [andygold, leeolayvar, danielway]
template: index.jade
---


The Koding Community Documentation is an ongoing effort to create a series
of guides that, when combined with the
[Koding Community Wiki](https://github.com/koding/docs/wiki),
provide a well rounded guide to making the best use of
[Koding](https://koding.com) as possible.
If you have any requests, issues, or something doesn’t quite make sense
then please
[submit an issue](https://github.com/koding/docs/issues/new)
and we can help the Koding community grow, *together*. :)


**Disclaimer**: We are Koding users like any other, so there are no claims to
know any fancy tricks or in depth Linux solutions for your life. We are
simply trying to help in a place we think we can.




## Frequently Asked Questions

- [What is Koding?](guides/koding-overview/)
- [How do I setup FTP?](guides/setting-up-ftp/)
- [How do I install MySQL and phpMyAdmin?](guides/installing-mysql-phpmyadmin/)
- [How do I SSH into my VM?](guides/ssh-into-your-vm/)
- [How do I install Wordpress?](guides/installing-wordpress/)
- [General .htaccess Issues](guides/general-htaccess/)
- [How do I find my VM Number?](guides/find-your-vm-number/)



## Feature Exploration

- [Apps Overview](guides/apps-overview/): The basics of Koding Apps usage
- [Domain Management](guides/domain-management/): Managing which domain points to which VM.
- [Reinitializing your VM](guides/reinitializing-your-vm/): The magic reset everything button!
